In this video we come to create an app that does more than just displaying widgets on the screen will
stop by producing some code so that we can get the button to actually do something that will extend
the app to see how to include a menu.
Now in future sections I'm going to show you the finished app running first.
So you know what it is we're creating but I'm not going to do that here partly because the app is very
simple and partly because we kind of change what it does halfway through to start with kind of a challenge
to build that layout for the user interface that the poor use started to help with that he has some
rules governing how you can use constraints so that she can say the rules are pretty simple.
Each viewer must have at least two constraints one horizontal and vertical.
You can create constraints only between a constraint handle and an anchor point that share the same
plane.
So in other words a vertical plane the left and right sides of a view can be constrained only to another
vertical plane and baselines can constrain only two other baselines.
For example you can constrain the top of one which is to the left of another.
Now each constraint though can be used with just one constraint but you can create multiple constraints
from different widgets to the same anchor point.
Now if you don't constrain a widget both vertically and horizontally Antwoord won't know where to place
it on the screen which it's not constrained horizontally.
Move to the left of the screen and which is then aren't constrained vertically will move to the top.
They are constrained on a vertical edge can only be connected to another vertical edge.
So in other words you can't constrain the top of one widget to the left side of another.
And it's not really difficult to remember as it's a bit of this new age constraint handle can only be
connected to one anchor point and anchor point by the way is a constraint.
Hand-to that's the destination of a constraint or an edge to the screen.
There are anchor points can have more than one constraint going to the night.
Again that's easy to remember.
You can constrain multiple widgets to the edges of the screen for example.
All right so let's go ahead and create the project we're going to be using here.
What kind of quick start in your intro project.
We're going to call this one button click.
Company name is going to be you learn programming down Academy and going to make sure that we're included
to Scotland support by ensuring that the checkbox is checked to the left so that that's if you're using
this during this happened the Cottman course.
But if you're building this in the job of course you want to make sure that include Kotla support is
actually unchecked.
So I click on next.
Now on this crane we're going to make sure that the minimum STK is API 17 and everything else is unchecked.
I can say here that I've got IPY 17 selected which is Android 4.0 and everything else is unchecked.
Click on next we want to start off with an empty activity so choose that or the closest one to that
things have changed and click on next.
Now the suggested names here for the activity and lay out a fine.
So make sure that the two options here the two checkboxes for generate last follow and backwards compatibility
app Capet make sure that they're both checked as well and click on finish there once the credibility
is finished and the indexing is complete.
We can actually continue
see the credibility's running down the bottom so just give them a moment to complete OK and then it's
all done.
So what's the grade.
What has finished is it has now we can open up the rest lap photos are going to come out of here.
If your purchase paints not showing for some reason or perhaps you've got a screen that looks like this
on the project page to the left they want to make sure that you are and will be selecting Android If
it's not selected.
They want to expand app and expand raise and expand out.
We want to double click this activity and small minded X-amount to make sure that that's on the screen.
And if it was already existing up here just double click it and then I'm going to click on this project
and he declares that up to give us a bit more spice.
All right.
Now time for the challenge.
So the challenge is to create a layout containing a plain text widget a button and a text you and arrange
them so that they look like the image you can see on screen.
Now it's a screen size all the orientation changes the plain text and Button widgets must remain at
the top of the screen with a button over to the right and the plain text filling the space from the
left edge up to the button.
Now the text you should start just below the plain text and should expand to use as much as the screen
it needs when the text in it grows.
It should also be scrollable vertically as it gets bigger than the available space on the screen.
No margin set those to 16 to pay.
And as this is the first real challenge and the costs have included images of the design and blueprint
as you can see on the screen now now take a good look at eyes and then pause this video and see if you
can go ahead and create that interface and start the video when you're ready to come back and say may
go with the solution.
I posed the video now.
All right.
You managed to get that working what to get a large component of it working anyway.
So the first thing we want to do now to build this interface is you're going to titillate the hello
world which it was created for us.
So let's start by doing that sort of click on Hollowell and click that in the design or the blueprint.
Delete that.
I'm going to press that.
OK.
All right.
So up till date it's a hollow word widget that was created for us.
Now we're going to drag the three widgets we want onto the design and place them roughly where we want
them using the card lines that appear as well as a god.
The other Courtland's happy when you've dragged to Wichita recognize position such as 16 DP away from
the edge of a lamp.
So by moving the button around a bit before dropping it you can actually get both horizontal and vertical
gardens to appear and you'll see that shortly.
Now if they don't appear It doesn't matter as to time really any takes seconds to fix up the mat.
The margins up manually anyway.
So I'm going to stop making sure that what I connect is a I boot and you can see here that we haven't
got a slash through the auto connect.
So that's enabled.
And the other thing I'm going to do is make sure the default margins sit to 16 do pay someone to come
over here because it said tonight I'm going to click on 68 or I could have talked that and now good
to go.
So next we're going to drop a button over to the right.
Now we could drop the plain text which at first the order that you placed to which is the reason is
really important here.
But we want the button to be constrained to the top and right edges of the layout.
So I'm going to make sure that it's correct and then create any constraints that aren't done automatically
and then we'll also check the top and right margins.
So I've got all under here and on the pallet come over here and just drag it over to the right hand
side making sure that both card lines that we've got in the horizontal and vertical cards release it
because we've got what I connect turned on.
You can see it's automatically added a constraint at the top and right edge which is what we want here.
And also we can say that to our margins 16 DP for the top and 16 DP for the right by fear.
If they're not correct for some reason you can just click on the dropdown and change the number as appropriate.
And of course you can add a constraint manually if for some reason it wasn't added for you.
All right so that's the button next we want the plain text widget and that's either here in the text
category.
Now the plain text which it is going to be placed on the left hand side.
And again if I stop this and drag it around you can see if I'm moving it slowly you can get I got loans
to pay for a sort of medically.
So want so relace we should fund the lift and the top constraints get added automatically and we can
say that that's the case over here.
And I'm just checking to see that 16 day pay for the top margin and 16 to pay for the right margin.
Now we also want this constraint to the left of the button and more than Laclede that hasn't been added
automatically.
And it wasn't added FNET.
So I'm going to add the right hand constraint to the left of the button manually.
So I'm just going to come over here and drag that over to the button so that plain text widget is not
constrained to the button.
Now I connect my also have added a bottom constraint to the bottom of the button.
That's not a problem in that way but it could be in others.
So if you are seeing a constraint from the bottom of the button down to the bottom of the screen remove
that if one was created.
Right now at the moment the plane takes which it isn't set up to fill all the available space left or
right.
So we want to change that we didn't expect to match constraint.
When I click on that to make sure it is selected and we're going to change the layout width to match
constraint and you can say that's going to fit all the available space.
So in other words we're allowing it to fill the space from the left of the screen up to the button.
Now to allow to fill the screen vertically you also change the lad height to match constraint.
If you're trying to do that something weird happens as you can see there and the the which it shrinks
vertically to just a law.
The reason that happens is because there's no Boerum constraint so there's nothing to define its bounds
vertically.
Now if you're going to use much constraint in which it has to be constrained on both edges top and bottom
in this case so a better option here would be to leave the white set to wrap around the school content.
And that's because it allows the widget to expand vertically to supply all the text it contains.
So we're going to go ahead and do that.
Change that to get content that fixes that up.
And the other thing to check is to make sure that the margins are set correctly.
And sometimes you find there's a little bit of a weird bug that
you can say that that's showing as 16 patrons at twice you can say it briefly moves over and briefly
moves back again.
This is the left margin I'm talking about.
So the plain text.
Now we want the text to start from the left hand side but the widget is automatically set to centered
there as more text is entered.
Expand right.
But it should start from the left edge of the layout.
So to do that we want to change the horizontal slaughter to zero.
So thats hard.
That's a really hard fast and to the left are going to change that slot to zero.
Now you may or may not get a problem when you do that.
If you read a text which it has a lift margin showing in the design or blueprint then everything is
falling.
But theres a bug in Android studio that has been for a while even back in version two point three stable
release.
So it is Tymms to cater for right to left languages and uses the Let us go margin's stopped and laughed
on the margin and attributes.
Now that might be instead of or in addition to the lion school margin left and lay on the margin right.
Chibi-Usa So the exact effect of the changes with different versions.
So its not really yet easy to demonstrate exactly what happened on your screen but hopefully everything
works fine in the backspin fix by the time you watch this video.
But to show you why one why the public messes with the preview.
Going to make a change to the margins for the text widget so I'm going to be here for the edit takes
were just plain text.
I'm going to take a hit to get to the extended at the beats and I'm going to expand the land on a small
margin here.
And what I'm going to do do is delete the settings if there's anything in there for the rot and I'm
going to sit in to 16 pay which is currently set at the moment.
Now it may already be using Endace it was in this case here in which case there's nothing obviously
that you need to change but I can see that the net effect of that is that the text is showing hard either
against the left hand edge with no margins showing.
And that's been the case all along since of first dragged this plain text into a text widget onto the
screen.
Now I'm not exactly sure why it's the left margin that's vanished when it was sitting for the right
margin that was changed or in this case has been sent.
But it's a bug.
And that's the nature of bugs seems worse if you have different peers specifying the left or right margins
for example using lift.
And he can say he has got left and right specified or Staffa right.
So you will get strange results with margins if you don't check the margins in the attributes section
as you can see.
Now the left margin.
Start and End that repeats without bias introduced in API 17 jelly bean and will actually be ignored
on earlier Android versions.
Now what that means is the margin what he said on earlier versions unless you've got lay out on the
school margin left and left on school margin right attributes.
Now you can use them as well as the staff inversions the new attributes are ignored on older versions.
So once you've actually got your margins correct checked the lat margin attributes and make sure you've
got both sets of attributes for each margin.
So if you set left then you also want to start to the same value.
If you set right then set into the same value.
Now we're targeting April 17 and above.
So you might think you could just use the start and end attributes.
That's correct.
You can but if you let it change your mind and target IP 16 or above you have to go through every lad
in the app setting the left or right margin attributes.
But every widget now Android studio may hopefully start doing full doing that for us in a future release.
But right now it's much more reliable to just skip parts pairs of actually butes when you're creating
the last just click on the button to selected a city.
Imagine if it's not already set to 16 DP as well.
And I'm going to sit in my case because Rock wasn't specified I'm going to specify right to be 16 tapes.
Well I don't know if I click on start and change that to 16 DP as well so that both match and he can
say that I've done that.
We've got lift tape 16 pay start 16 DP and 16 D playing right 16 d pay you can say that time when to
set that we've neo-GOP the margin correctly showing in the design and blueprint.
So that's good and that makes everything work out OK.
But what Chad if you change the margins in the inspector and check the margins again like I'm showing
you if you do.
All right so the text few.
Well it's going to go directly below the plain text widget.
What we'll do is we'll finish the video here and move stuff up in the next video.
Well we'll go ahead and add that textfield.
So I see you in the next video.